## Microbiology Technician at 2 Sisters Food Group

In September 2011, I started work at the 2 Sisters microbiology lab in
Nottingham. This built on my previous experience as a lab technician - a role I
enjoyed and was good at. The first couple of months were spent learning the
lab's core procedures: aseptic sampling of food samples, writing and pipetting
onto agar plates for each sample's tests, receipt of samples into the lab using
specialist LIMS software, safe waste disposal and glassware cleaning.

After this initial period I began training on more specific tasks: special
Salmonella and Listeria procedures, counting colonies on incubated agar plates
and confirmation methods for certain bacterial types. In late 2012 I was trained
on the preparation of the sterile agars and broths that are used in all the
lab's testing procedures.

#### Maximising speed and accuracy

The main challenge for this job is to complete any set task as fast as possible
while at the same time maintaining complete accuracy. Any mistakes made are
likely to waste time either immediately or further down the line, while taking
too much time over a method could be just as costly if there were to be a delay
in completing that day's testing quota. With such high volumes (over 3000 tests
on a busy day), any delays will further stress an already busy lab.

#### Equipment manager role

In June 2012, I was offered the role of Equipment Manager in addition to the
routine duties mentioned above. This proved to be an enjoyable challenge, which
required me to balance commissioning, calibration and maintenance of 100's of
pieces of equipment with the routine lab duties that were assigned to me every
day.

#### Filling a skills gap

One of the main problems facing me was to keep the lab's autoclaves in
operation. Years of relentless 24 hour use, together with hard water and
substantial modifications during their history, mean that these machines could
be rather temperamental and it was up to me to quickly become familiar with
common problems so that I could reduce our high number of engineer call-outs. By
learning from specialists, observing symptoms as they developed, and attending a
seminar on autoclaves, I was able to provide engineers with detailed information
over the phone and sometimes fix the problem myself, allowing the autoclaves to
run more smoothly than before.

#### Workplace champion

It was up to me to familiarise myself with all pieces of equipment, develop
solutions to any common problems, and to make sure technicians were comfortable
with equipment use. When I observed a high rate of damage to a particular type
of tubing, I was able to trace the problem back to its source - a sharp section
of the tubing clamps - and advise technicians on avoiding further damage through
writing an official communication as well as through word of mouth. I also
updated several of the lab's official equipment procedures where I noticed that
information was lacking.

#### Co-ordinating 30 technicians

In September 2012 I began to be given the task of 'Bench Organising' for the
day. This role is to oversee all routine activity in the lab, ensuring a smooth
work flow from sample receipt all the way through to plate incubation, together
with any jobs immediately relating to this. It demands awareness of: the work
rate of each technician, availability and usage rates of all media, any time
dependent testing and any non-routine extra work as well as making sure all
methods are carried out correctly. Avoiding delays or backlogs between different
testing stages can be especially tough, especially as work rates change
depending on the type of samples being tested at the time.

#### Learning and documenting new equipment

In early 2013 the lab began preparing for the ambitious task of moving to a new
building, and during this time Equipment Manager became a full time role for
several weeks. As soon as they were switched on in the new lab, all incubators
and fridges required monitoring to ensure they were achieving the correct
temperatures, and it was up to me to analyse mapping data to position
temperature probes correctly and set appropriate alarm limits for each one. A
number of brand new pieces of equipment were installed to aid in media
preparation, and I had to quickly familiarise myself with them, help test that
they were fit for purpose and write the official procedures on their use.
Predictably there were several teething problems and it was important to
troubleshoot as quickly as possible and to keep all senior members of staff
appraised of any ongoing work. All the correct paperwork had to be completed
immediately as the lab underwent an annual audit just two weeks after moving,
which went well and with no major issues identified. During this time I was
willing to stay late after hours and to come in for extra days in order to get
everything completed in time.

#### Handing over skills

Following the lab move, the role of Equipment Manager was incorporated into a
separate full time position and I worked closely with my successor to ensure a
smooth handover. The extra knowledge gained while I was managing equipment
allows me to work better as a technician and to help others understand equipment
and fix minor problems.

#### Customer liaison

Over 2013 and early 2014 I became involved in reporting the results of our
testing to our customers. Accuracy is obviously of paramount importance in this
role, and can be taxing when processing up to 3000 individual results with no
errors within the working day. After confidentially reporting results to
individual customers, it is also up to me to process any communication that
comes back from a customer such as a request for further information or a change
to testing requirements.

#### Technician training

In 2014 I also started training other technicians on a variety of lab
procedures. This suits me well as I find it easy to get on with others and I am
good at adapting my communication style to each individual. It can be a
challenge to balance authority and amiability, but by remaining aware of this
and being receptive to feedback from those I work with, it is possible to strike
a good right balance. I tend to remember details of procedures that others
may forget, and I do my best to understand the logic behind the procedures;
these assets are extremely useful when passing the information onto others as I
can both pass on more information and also do my best to make that information
memorable.

#### Helping everyone maintain quality

It was of great importance that the work of the lab is high quality and
completely traceable, so a growing part of my job was to correct any errors that
I observe, whether it be an individual technician's method, incorrectly filled
paperwork or sometimes the way a procedure is written. If these errors are
large, recurring or out of my control I report these errors to senior members of
staff, but however errors are dealt with the important thing is that they are
fixed, and it is this attitude that maintains the integrity of the lab.

---

In June 2014 I transferred from the lab into a new role within the company. I
learned a huge amount from my time there and have been able to apply those
skills and knowledge to other areas both in and out of work.
