## Martin's strengths

I have consistently **achieved highly** throughout my academic and work
experience, and I will always go the **extra mile** in order to reach my full
potential, whatever the task may be.

I am a **diligent** worker with excellent **attention to detail** - I recognise
that maintaining quality and organisation delivers consistent, superior results
with greater efficiency when compared to focussing on speed alone.

I **pick up new concepts easily**, which allows me to adapt to new roles very
quickly, or to help introduce something new to an existing role. I am able to do
this **without assistance** if none is available, which often helps when
resources are tight, although given the choice I find it is always best to ask
questions to avoid any confusion or misinterpretation.

I strive to **solve problems** instead of working around them, and I am at my
most pro-active and productive when faced with a challenge. I find that I enjoy
jobs more when I take an interest beyond my basic duties, which allows me to
shoulder
**extra responsibilities**, which in turn further increases my enjoyment of the
job.

I consistently **analyse my approach** to a task and remain aware of alternative
approaches, which allows me to grow and stay at the top of my game.

I am an **approachable** person and I build close relationships with those
around me. This rapport makes teamwork smoother and also allows me to help
others and have honest discussions about any potential difficulties associated
with a task.

I am always happy to adopt a **leadership role**, something that comes naturally
for me. It is very important to me that I treat all my colleagues with the
**respect** they deserve, and I am therefore careful to only apply as much
leadership as the moment demands.

I am capable of keeping my same **high standard** of work under **stressful
conditions**. By remaining objective, prioritising urgent tasks and if necessary
working extra hours I am able to deliver results regardless of tight time
limits, outside scrutiny or other pressures.

I like to look at the **big picture**. What's most important for delivering a
goal? What's routines and structures will deliver the best results?
